# v0.4.0

- [v0.4.0](#v040)
  - [Renamed `findRepo` in RepositoriesService to `findRepoInfo`](#renamed-findrepo-in-repositoriesservice-to-findrepoinfo)
  - [Renamed `RecordValue` to `Record` and modified to return `StrongRef` from `createRecord` and `updateRecord`](#renamed-recordvalue-to-record-and-modified-to-return-strongref-from-createrecord-and-updaterecord)
  - [Removed `BlobContext` and `LegacyBlob`](#removed-blobcontext-and-legacyblob)

## Renamed `findRepo` in RepositoriesService to `findRepoInfo`

In previous versions, you can write like:

```dart
import 'package:atproto/atproto.dart' as atp;

Future<void> main() async {
  final session = await atp.createSession(
    identifier: 'YOUR_HANDLE_OR_EMAIL',
    password: 'YOUR_PASSWORD',
  );

  final atproto = atp.ATProto.fromSession(session.data);

  final repo = await atproto.repositories.findRepo(
    identifier: 'shinayakato.dev',
  );

  print(repo);
}
```

But from `v0.4.0`, you have to write like:

```dart
import 'package:atproto/atproto.dart' as atp;

Future<void> main() async {
  final session = await atp.createSession(
    identifier: 'YOUR_HANDLE_OR_EMAIL',
    password: 'YOUR_PASSWORD',
  );

  final atproto = atp.ATProto.fromSession(session.data);

  final repoInfo = await atproto.repositories.findRepoInfo( // Renamed to `findRepoInfo` from `findRepo`
    repo: 'shinayakato.dev', // Renamed to `repo` from `identifier`
  );

  print(repoInfo);
}
```

This change was made to give it a more reasonable name and to clearly distinguish its use from other endpoints.
The name of the type returned from `findRepoInfo` has also been renamed from `Repo` to `RepoInfo` as a result of this change.

The structure is the same, but if you have used this object in an earlier version, please modify the part of your program that uses this type.

## Renamed `RecordValue` to `Record` and modified to return `StrongRef` from `createRecord` and `updateRecord`

This disruptive change was made to more clearly distinguish the relationship between `Record` and `StrongRef`.

In previous versions, there was a `Record` and a `StrongRef` with exactly the same structure and only different names, and a `RecordValue` as an object with specific record data.
However, this is a very complicated mix of concepts, and the `Record` and `StrongRef` objects are exactly the same function.

So, I first merged `Record` and `StrongRef` and modified to treat `RecordValue` as `Record`. As a result, the `RecordValue` object is no longer needed and has been removed.

To give a more concrete example, `findRecord` in the `RepositoriesService` used to return a `RecordValue` object,
but now returns a `Record` object. The `Record` object returned here has exactly the same structure
as the `RecordValue` object.

And `RepositoriesService`'s `createRecord` and `updateRecord` used to return old-style `Record` objects,
but now both return `StrongRef`. As you already know, this `StrongRef` object has the same structure as the previous
`Record` objects.

The objects have been renamed, but their structure is exactly the same as before.
However, if you have explicitly specified the names of these renamed objects in your program,
please correct them to the renamed object names.

## Removed `BlobContext` and `LegacyBlob`

This is a modification to make the handling of `Blob` objects more easily.

The reason why the odd objects `BlobContext` and `LegacyBlob` are needed is that the data
that can be retrieved from the current `bsky.social` PDS contains a mixture of old-style Blob data
that was used before [the official major refactoring](https://github.com/bluesky-social/atproto/issues/597).

For example, the current Blob data has the following structure:

```json
{
    "alt": "",
    "image": {
    "$type": "blob",
    "ref": {
        "$link": "bafkreidmoipl6f6ybhmzzoep43eg24pnoavgd4puog2wv2a3j5ul4k22yu"
    },
    "mimeType": "image/jpeg",
    "size": 656976
    }
}
```

And old format is:

```json
{
    "cid": "bafkreig5kmbhx5usqp643bisffgyhoz3i5gqtv5hee7ouykzeemzxmuyiy",
    "mimeType": "image/jpeg"
}
```

To accommodate these structures, a `LegacyBlob` was needed for the old format,
and an object with the funny name `BlobContext` of type Union had to be created to be
compatible with the new `Blob` format.

However, since this is a very unnatural structure, I decided to convert all old formats
as `Blob` objects from this version. So, `BlobContext` and `BlobLegacy` have been removed.

As some of you may already know, the old format Blob does not have a `size` field.
When converting from this field john to a `Blob` object, the `size` should always be specified
as `-1` for the old format. This allows us to determine when necessary that this object was converted
from an old format.
